---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "topologies-v1alpha1_topology_grouping_list Data Source - topologies-v1alpha1"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# topologies-v1alpha1_topology_grouping_list (Data Source)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `fields` (String) a comma-separated list of resource fields to fetch/return.  If unspecified, all fields are fetched.  If empty, only key-fields are fetched.
- `filter` (String) an EQL "where" expression that will be used to filter the set of resources returned.
- `label_selector` (String) a label selector string to filter the results based on CR labels

### Read-Only

- `api_version` (String)
- `items` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items))
- `kind` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--items"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items`

Optional:

- `spec` (Attributes) TopologyGroupingSpec defines the desired state of TopologyGrouping (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items--spec))

Read-Only:

- `api_version` (String)
- `kind` (String)
- `metadata` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items--metadata))
- `status` (Attributes) TopologyGroupingStatus defines the observed state of TopologyGrouping (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items--status))

<a id="nestedatt--items--spec"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items.spec`

Optional:

- `group_selectors` (Attributes List) The set of selectors for assigning nodes to groups (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items--spec--group_selectors))
- `tier_selectors` (Attributes List) The set of selectors for assigning nodes to tiers (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items--spec--tier_selectors))
- `ui_description` (String) A description of the topology grouping to expose in the UI
- `ui_description_key` (String) The translation key for the description of the topology grouping to expose in the UI
- `ui_name` (String) The name of the topology grouping to expose in the UI
- `ui_name_key` (String) The translation key for the name of the topology grouping to expose in the UI

<a id="nestedatt--items--spec--group_selectors"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items.spec.group_selectors`

Optional:

- `group` (String) The group to assign to nodes that match the selector.
- `node_selector` (List of String) Label selector to use to match nodes that should be assigned to this group.


<a id="nestedatt--items--spec--tier_selectors"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items.spec.tier_selectors`

Optional:

- `node_selector` (List of String) Label selector to use to match nodes that should be assigned to this tier.
- `tier` (Number) The tier to assign to nodes that match the selector.



<a id="nestedatt--items--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items.metadata`

Read-Only:

- `annotations` (Map of String)
- `labels` (Map of String)
- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--items--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items.status`
